Now again we strengthen our critical motivation of "The Jewel" and appreciation and bodhishtatam
and as well as understanding of the Dzogchen Shedra retreat on the reality level.
Everything is in a life mistake. There's nothing really missed on it.
And God is already a life mistake, according to Dzogchen Shedra.
And that is like start with our own nature of the mind and as well as all this phenomenal existence
.
So, we strengthen that beautiful those intelligent thought and then we go to the teaching.
And now the teaching as we went through and one after another according to the teaching
and now we are in a finalized stage.
Financed stage is the result, and that result of the Dzogchen in the teaching said again
that Dzogchen, the result of the Atiyoa is the ordinary inherited essence of the enlightenment
that now reworked. There's nothing really achieved upon God but reworked your inherited nature.
So that is what that answer said. So that means the reality level, we're not gaining anything God.
But what we did, we purified all in the Dzogchen Shedra's liberty.
All the blockage, the defilements of that block of the ordinary shining beauty of the absolute
nature.
Or beauty of the primordial wisdom or other world, Buddha Samhindvadara.
As we said the other day, the original inherited our own nature of mind is absolute Buddha Samhindv
adara.
Absolute Buddha Samhindvadara. That being residing all the time in with us or now in a way we are
human beings with that within our heart chapters. That never changed anything from the time
delusion until now. We went through recorded teaching in the samsara arts and dance
in all different places of the six realms through the cosmic wind force that created by one's own
south. We went all different ways. But nature never changed at all. It remained exactly as it is.
And not just it remained as it is throughout all those delusion times when we are deluded by this
our own creation of duality. That primordial wisdom or absolute that Buddha Samhindvadara
is guiding us throughout the time. And as we're talking yesterday intelligence, knowledge,
those all are as beams of light of this primordial wisdom. That is guiding us all the time. And
then
plus loving kindness, compassion, all that is light of this primordial Samhindvadara, absolute our
Samhindvadara which is here. So the reality is nothing really changed. Actually it's even in the
midst of the here is the duality or here is our cosmic force is kind of like crushing us but still
is guiding primogems our own intelligence, our own love, compassion, wisdom, understanding,
knowledge and included as common senses. All that is really is the radiating energy of our own
ordinary nature, absolute or the Buddha Samhindvadara. This is not just only we human beings,
even the animals, even all those beings six names every and each has every and each has
has intelligence versus us. That's why in a gracious teaching, Buddha Chaturman is in the teaching,
every living being inherited at the Buddha nature. No one is exception that don't have it.
Everyone has. Have you worked for that? We very well. If you don't work for that
and cannot carry with force, then we will be deluded. This delusion is of course, you know,
you know, and I heard it is our own creation. Dualities is nothing but is our own creation.
So therefore, by the practicing of the Dzogchen, Dzogchen through us in the Chatur and Toga
practices,
now what we revere, revere the organically inherited that absolute Buddha Samhindvadara.
Now, a brilliant is hiding free from any entrance or any blockage of dualities. Duality will be
transcendent or liberated to the Dharmakaya state or its own natural states. Duality is not
permanent.
Duality is temporarily developed. It's a little bit in a teaching. Lower, lower means temporary.
It's duality or the obscura is temporary. But this temporary state is a long time.
It's not just a long time. It's been a long time temporarily. That is, but whether it's a long time
or not, it is temporary. Now that developed. And for example, in the sky, cloud is not permanent.
Not permanent. It's temporary. Temporary. Same with duality, it's temporary. Because it is
delusions,
because it is permanent. Now with our power of the intelligence or power of the primordial
what's the technique that we use, that the smell or liberated then revere the organ and nature
exactly as it is. And that for that reason, then as I said, it is Dokkintanda Vyamgivnanda said
the result of the Atayoga is the organically inherent or essence of enlightenment. That it's
the reward. Reward always matured. Matured to one's own son. There's nothing really to gain.
Nothing you've got. New things. Nothing you gain. So that is what it is. Therefore,
this is, the Buddha summoned the Buddha. Instead of the Buddha summoned the Buddha,
now we are right. Absolute state of the Buddha summoned the Buddha, organ inherently state.
Now we are right. We went. So that means we've been wandering in the samsara
by the force of our own delusions to all the different places in the samsara. Now we come back,
now we regain our organ inheritance or our organ dominance. We regain back to that nature state.
At that time, when we regain and then we get three this, oh sorry, four third competences,
that I said yesterday, let's do the four competences, four competences. And that is also
in the Dokkintandra said the tandara of the dual hip Dokkintandras. The unshakeable change,
unshakeable of the great four competences will tell you that you arrived at the final
explanations. Unshakeable four competences. I'm translating competences. Then, in it to be the
thing that this competence or it can be, I mean it's the final goal, four goals. It tells
or measures your final achievement. That will tell us. And what are those? As again I said
yesterday,
really. And here she can say that when you heard, heard the suffering, the sadness, the difficulty,
challenges of the three lower realms such as hell realms and hungry gods realms, animal realms,
any of those and their kind of duration, their situation, circumstances, there is you don't have,
that individual, the yogi and the yogi is never going to be scared of them. Scared of that because
on the organ, the Samyantabhata, the absolute Samyantabhata, that nature has no delusions,
not deluded those. Even, not even the name of the delusion is not existing within that
natural status. So therefore, you don't, that individually has no fears, no fears at all,
hearing, any of that plus all the samsaras and what it is samsara, what we call, inhuman rims,
difficulty troubles. Those are like as we call, particularly connected with samsara in the
teaching said, the birth, getting old, getting old, sickness and death, those are the kind of
major challenges that we go through on that. In asura ram, those are the piping and the curling,
armpit, those are the troubles related with that, a lot of troubles and god's ram pouring down and
aspirating, all the moving, moving and those are the troubles. But whatever you have, that
individual,
that yogi and yoginis has no, not shaken by anything because it is all explanation of the
delusions, deluded situations. Now you're not deluded, that individual you're not deluded.
So therefore, no scares, no scare. So that competence, competence. And then finally,
finally is, not finally, second one is, with that individually, that individual who reaches that
status, now you reach the final stages, final stages of the awareness or the epithelus,
just simply say, raka. When you're not that individually arrived to the final stage,
the ultimate stage of panakkal status, of the status, there in that stage, generally that
stage, there's not names of, even not name of the samsara, not even a name of samsara existence.
So why you are concerned of the good karma or the bad karmas or the expecting for the good karma,
something like that. That notion, that is not even not existing in that stage. So therefore,
nothing, no expectations, no hopes for that individualism to the samsara. And then the second
one, the competence is, and again in the absolute level of the Buddha, Samadha Bhattar, the
absolute
Buddha, Samadha Bhattar, we're talking to the inherited our own, our own nature. There is nothing
also not even existing or this is good or nirvana is good. That notion is not really existing at
all,
at all. This is delusions, that notion is juhanaki, that is delusions. For therefore,
but then there's nothing really, nirvana has nothing to gain actually, there's nothing you're
gaining anything. For that reason, there is, you don't really expecting something to gain more
hobby. So you have the great again, confidence, confidence, and there's nothing
hoping something to be in the niranas, niranas. And then, and even again, so that's the third one.
The fourth one is when you heard all the different explanations of the dharmakaya,
when you heard explanation of the call of the sambhokaya, pipe certain in all this,
and in the makaya call of all this, when you heard all that individually, when they heard this,
there's nothing have any excitement for that, or I like to gain that. You already have that
everything. So there's nothing more gaining, more excitement, more convenient for that. There's
nothing you already gain. All that is again, delusion status, explanations, reality level,
everything is completed, and everything is great in the economic status, everything is in that
natural status. So that is making, when you have that confidence, when you have that realization,
what that confidence, that is also measurement of the new final achievement, final destination.
That is in a way, sambok, now that's it. And that is also applying to your own, our own sound.
When you break that status, then there's not, there's a community built for those great masters,
masters in their songs. Songs, they say, for example, great masters, one of these songs,
how joyous yourself on this life, how joyous of next lives, there's nothing to be,
to be, not joyous, it's all the same. This life, next lives, lives. Also the really great
master, the other great master too, when you break that status, then there is this. And also
that is, this is the final gaining or results, results. And then when you reach that status,
and how, again, so this is another Dokki that that other day we listed, Durya sambha yenge merongu
ji.
It's heart, heart barrier of the Buddha Veda sakos. In that, in enlightenment, in Dokki ji ji,
there is two, two kind of enlightenment, completely, perfectly, completely enlightenment,
and also enlightened or enlightened, so perfectly, completely enlightened and enlightened. Maybe
just
use that word. And what that means is it, the perfectly enlightened is that who reached that,
who reached that wisdom rainbow body, that means the outer gate, the physical outer gate
is dissolved into, into the heap of light. Light, there's nothing any left residues in the heart.
That is known as perfect enlightenment. And then enlightenment, enlightenment,
what that means? Here in that is, again, great master, Jyummi nova, said, the work and said,
that is, is the enlightenment, that means when these duties are entered in our body, Narana,
that individual moment with the past, or during that period, short period, there is a lot of
beams of light coming, coming. There's delicious songs that are happening. And there is then also
such as, as the bodies, when there, there's so many pillars, vast pillars, or kind of like,
like small, small kind of fractions of the relatives coming. And then also their bodies
become smaller, smaller, and art is shaken. Those are known as, then, known as the enlightened,
those masters who had those, those qualities, or those, some of those, and then is, is known
as the enlightenment. And if you, who, who are they? Who got those? The first one is perfect
enlightenment. That is like, Jyotsu Sangewabso. Jyotsu Sangewabso is one of the great, like,
grand, grand, grand student of the Mamal Matara. And then, of course, Mamal Matara himself, I
really
also came to, to have a tour, tour. So, this Jyotsu Sangewabso and Jyotsu Ninte, as you know,
he is passing under, must remember, he really reached to the, he dissolved the body, physical
body into light, and then went. And the next one is enlightenment, is like, who was that? That is,
for example, leading example of great master umkimba, umkiba. That's what they use, the example,
by grand master, with the Dara, Yumilambas. Yumilambas. Yumilambas. So, that is God. And then,
also, there is many, when they also, the sign of that achievement, realization, finding that
resistance, and there is many kind of explanations in the teaching said, sometimes, the, the
residues are, the physical residues are completely dissolved, and it just only become the, kind of,
like, a small molecules, or small particles, which are just really, is dissolved, that. And then,
as well as, also, there is those, those three monsters, where dying, sky-like dying, or going
into the Mahatma body, and the one as, like, sky-like, and that also, like, there's a dissolved,
kind of, physical things that, kind of, merge to the space, spaces. So, those are, those many
subdivisions, you see that. And who is those, those masters, again, example, say, who kind of,
like, left, like, kind of, all their physical things become as, like, uh, molecules, or other,
particles, sub-particles of that. That is, then, and become, also, that means, everything becomes
light state. Sub-particles are light, light. So, all that light, who is the examples of those? And
those are known as the master, great master, Bimal, sorry, not Bimal, Bhaktana, the disciple,
disciple, Paim, Mopam Gombo. Paim, Mopam Gombo, in a succession of seven generations, one after
another, really, all that went, Rambo body, simple, we can tell, Rambo body, or they transcended
their
physical, and sub-particles, and it become light, light, one after another, those. And then,
then, so, and then, those people who have that, then, again, it transcended the Western Rambo
bodies. Plus, transcended the Western Rambo body is the examples of the Gaurabhama Sambho,
which is the Rambo, Ascended Western Rambo body, and great master, Bimal Materas. Also, we can use
as Ishinthogya, in the teachings said that, too, Ishinthogya has become the Ascended Western Rambo
body. She really did not die or die as normally. In the teachings said, she flew left in the sky,
sky, two Dakini's kind of merged to her, and three of them, and merged to her, and she kind of flew
away in the sky. Those were seen by the cow herd, or those people who go to the upper animal,
animal, in that they came, all came in the mountains, and then, in the mountain, they came,
they did the beautiful Ganachakra offerings, at the end of the Ganachakra or Chok ceremony,
and the two Dakini's, this merged to her, and these two Dakini's the Kala Siddhi, and I think,
Kala Siddhi, and Trachi Chindi. Trachi Chindi, these two are merged, kind of dissolved to it,
and then she flew away in the sky, and then these shepherds are, what, very kind of immediate, that
even they saw that kind of happened there, and they went to the place where they did some ceremony,
there's left remaining, left all food, and they had, and instantly they got big realization,
and really big realization, those were the teachings said. So that is, is the, is the
final realization. In the mountain, you reach realization, then out to that stages, and then
now you reach the final stage of the Dharmakaya, as we said. When you reach the Dharmakaya stages,
although you benefit from all navy beings, then you begin to emanate it, many emanates. Those are
known in Sambokaya, Abhaya, and in Dharmakaya, and there are so many emanations, emanations,
these are all that display of the Dharmakaya, or the Sambokaya, this place, in order to benefit
from all navy beings, and then benefit it to all, the beings of six rims, and so that is
really the, what's called, really a result of the, of the Ati-yoga, Ati-yoga practices.
So that is then, we complete it. We complete the Dzogchin Shedda, in a way, very essential,
event, kind of quite thorough, one after another, we went, and so we completed. Now we just, let's
look back what we discussed last year and this year.